NEUROQUEST
The 3D Spatial Memory Palace for Education
College project report
For students, lecturers, and project evaluators
Concept illustration of a memory palace. The image is not a screenshot of the current application.
Main purpose
Help students organize academic concepts in memorable locations and practise
retrieving them before checking their notes.
Prepared for: a college project presentation
Presented by: NeuroQuest Project Team
Implementation reviewed: 19 September 2026
This report describes the implemented website. It labels proposed backend services and future educational evaluation
separately.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
02
1. Project overview and purpose
NeuroQuest is a browser-based study application that connects notes with objects
inside a navigable 3D space.
Abstract
A memory palace associates information with places. NeuroQuest brings this idea into an interactive
website: students create subject rooms, place memory anchors inside them, attach study notes, and
return to those locations during revision. Explore mode supports reading and navigation. Recall
Challenge hides titles and asks students to identify the concept before revealing the note. The student
then records a self-assessment.
The project combines Next.js, React, TypeScript, and Three.js with a shared Zustand store. It saves
rooms, anchors, and selected progress data in browser localStorage. The current implementation does
not include an application backend, authentication, or a cloud database. It supports a usable HTML
study interface when WebGL is unavailable.
Why build this website?
The central purpose is to make deliberate recall easier to practise. A student needs more than a place to
collect notes: a revision tool should also prompt them to check what they can explain without looking.
NeuroQuest supplies spatial cues and a repeatable study sequence. Its 3D setting gives each idea a
visible location, while the recall workflow creates a pause before the answer appears.
Project objectives
1. Organize knowledge
Provide separate palaces for different subjects and focused anchors for individual concepts.
2. Support recall practice
Hide concept labels until the student chooses to reveal them, then collect a self-rating.
3. Make the system usable
Provide responsive forms, keyboard-accessible controls, readable notes, and a graphics fallback.
4. Demonstrate sound engineering
Separate UI, 3D graphics, state, validation, and persistence into maintainable modules.
Scope: an individual study and revision tool. It supplements teaching and problem solving. It is not a
replacement for a learning management system, a teacher, or formal assessment.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
03
2. Learning idea and intended users
The design combines spatial associations with a prompt to retrieve information
before revealing it.
Method of Loci
The Method of Loci associates information with distinct locations along an imagined or familiar route. In
this project, the student uses a digital room instead: a selected artifact and its position become cues for
an academic idea. The title and full explanation remain attached to the anchor. The student must build
the association through study; simply placing an object does not create understanding.
Active recall
Recall Challenge asks the student to attempt an answer before opening the note. Roediger and
Karpicke (2006) found benefits of retrieval practice on delayed tests in experiments using prose material
[R1]. Dresler and colleagues (2017) studied mnemonic training using the Method of Loci and reported
memory improvements in that research setting [R2]. These studies motivate the design. Neither study
evaluated NeuroQuest, and the project has no measured claim about examination marks or memory
improvement.
Who can use it?
Audience
Possible use
College students
Organize definitions, terminology, formulas with conditions, programming concepts,
or historical events.
Lecturers
Demonstrate a revision method and ask learners to explain the concept behind an
anchor.
Project evaluators
Examine interaction design, state management, data validation, and browser
graphics.
Independent learners
Create personal subject rooms and practise at a chosen pace.
Good learning practice
Keep each anchor focused. Read for understanding, explain the concept in your own words, and solve
relevant exercises. During recall, answer aloud or on paper before revealing the note. Revisit difficult
concepts in later sessions. The current app does not calculate a revision schedule or verify that an
explanation is correct.
Research references R1 and R2 appear in the final section. All proposed educational uses require suitable content and honest
self-assessment.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
04
3. Functional features and scope
A subject palace contains memory anchors. Each anchor combines a study note
with a position and a visual artifact.
Feature
Current behavior
Subject selection
Three example palaces: Computer Science, Human Anatomy, and World History.
Custom palaces
Create a room with a unique name, optional description, icon, and color.
Anchor creation
Add a title, category, Markdown material, shape, color, and coordinates.
Explore mode
Navigate the room, focus an anchor, and read or edit its note.
Recall Challenge
Hide titles, reveal a concept after an attempt, and record Easy, Hard, or Failed.
Search and map
Find notes across palaces in Explore mode or focus an anchor using the spatial
map.
Progress and settings
View room totals, self-rated mastery, effects settings, and an optional ambient
sound.
Persistence and export
Keep selected data in the same browser and download a JSON snapshot.
Content and limits
The six artifact shapes are crystal, ring/torus, cube, sphere, pyramid, and knot. Color choices and
coordinates help distinguish locations. The store permits up to 50 palaces and 300 anchors across the
workspace. Palace names can contain up to 48 characters. X and Z positions must stay between -6 and
6, and Y between 0 and 3.
The default subjects contain demonstration study notes. Human Anatomy uses geometric cues rather
than a detailed anatomical model. World History uses notes in the shared vault environment rather than
historically reconstructed locations. New subject palaces use the same scene system with their own
content.
Not included: accounts, automatic grading, AI-generated answers, collaborative editing, full historical
review logs, scheduled spaced repetition, or an import screen. These should not be described as
completed features.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
05
4. Student user guide
A useful first session starts with one subject and a small number of clear concepts.
1. Open NeuroQuest
Open the running website in a modern browser. Select a subject in the sidebar. On a phone, open the
navigation menu first.
2. Create a subject if needed
Select Create palace. Enter a unique name, an optional description, an icon, and a color. Submit the
form. The new empty palace opens immediately.
3. Add one memory anchor
Select Add memory anchor or Place a new memory. Enter a title and study material. Add an optional
category. Choose a shape and color. Use the suggested position or adjust valid coordinates, then select
Add to palace.
4. Learn in Explore mode
Drag to orbit and scroll to zoom. On touch devices, use one finger to orbit and pinch to zoom. Select an
artifact, its label, a map point, or its list entry to read the note. Use Reset camera to return to the room
view.
5. Attempt Recall Challenge
Switch to Recall Challenge. The room becomes darker and titles are hidden. Select an anchor and
answer the prompt before selecting Reveal concept. Search results are unavailable during the
challenge.
6. Rate the attempt
Select Easy, Hard, or Failed. Continue with Next anchor. The app allows one rating per anchor in the
current session.
7. Review and return
Check Learning insights and revisit difficult material. Refreshing preserves saved notes and progress in
the same browser, but resets open panels and the current recall-session details.
Useful controls
Action
Control
Search
Search button or Ctrl+K / Cmd+K with study panels closed
Close a panel
Escape or its close button
Edit or delete
Open the anchor drawer in Explore mode
Export data
Workspace settings, then Export all palaces


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
06
5. Worked example and classroom use
A spatial cue helps the student return to an idea. Explanation and application
complete the learning activity.
Example: Binary Trees
1. Choose a memorable cue
Use the Computer Science palace and associate Binary Trees with a distinctive artifact near a chosen
corner.
2. Write a focused note
State that each node has at most two children. Add a small example and explain root, leaf, and subtree.
A fenced code block can hold pseudocode or a short implementation.
3. Build the association
Read the note, draw the structure, and explain the definition without copying it. Notice the artifact and
where it sits in the room.
4. Recall before reveal
In Recall Challenge, look at the artifact and identify the concept. Explain the rule about children before
opening the note. Compare the answer and give an honest rating.
5. Apply the concept
Solve a traversal problem outside the app or include an exercise in the note. Remembering a title alone
does not demonstrate full understanding.
Other subject examples
Subject
Possible anchor content
Human Anatomy
Names and functions of a selected body system, reviewed against course material.
World History
An event with its date, causes, consequences, and supporting course references.
Mathematics
A theorem, the conditions where it applies, and a worked example.
Languages
A word or phrase with meaning, pronunciation guidance, and an example sentence.
A lecturer-led activity
Introduce a short topic, then ask students to choose five key concepts and create one anchor for each.
Allow time to explain the associations. In a later session, ask students to recall and apply the ideas
before viewing their notes. Discuss mistakes in class. This is a proposed teaching activity, not an
implemented teacher dashboard or a validated study result.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
07
6. Programming languages and stack
TypeScript is the main programming language. Frameworks, runtimes, and data
formats have separate roles.
Technology
Type and purpose
TypeScript / TSX
Typed application logic and React components. TSX combines TypeScript with
component markup.
JavaScript
The browser executes JavaScript produced from the TypeScript source.
HTML / CSS
Document structure and visual styling. CSS handles responsive layout and
transitions.
Next.js 16 / React 19
Application framework, App Router entry, and interactive component system.
Three.js / R3F 9
Three.js provides the 3D renderer. React Three Fiber manages its scene through
React.
Drei / postprocessing
Orbit controls, scene helpers, Bloom, Vignette, and ChromaticAberration.
GSAP
Camera-position and orbit-target transitions.
Zustand 5
Shared store with actions, selective subscriptions, and persistence.
Tailwind CSS 4 / Lucide
Styling support and UI icons alongside custom CSS.
React Markdown /
remark-gfm
Render Markdown notes, including lists, tables, and fenced code blocks.
Node.js / npm
Run development tools, install packages, build, and serve the application.
JSON
A data format for browser persistence, settings, and export.
Development checks use TypeScript, ESLint, Vitest, and Prettier. DM Sans and Space Grotesk fonts are bundled locally. Exact
package declarations appear in package.json and resolved versions in package-lock.json.
Backend language: none is implemented for application data. Node.js runs the Next.js tooling/server,
but that alone does not create an authenticated study API or a database.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
08
7. Frontend architecture and modules
The interface, 3D scene, and state store have separate responsibilities.
File or module
Responsibility
src/app/page.tsx
App Router page that mounts the workspace.
src/app/layout.tsx
Shared document layout, metadata, local fonts, and global styles.
NeuroQuest.tsx
Workspace composition, map, search, settings, learning insights, and
scene loading.
Navigation / ModeSwitcher
Subject navigation, new-palace entry point, and study-mode controls.
AddRoomModal / AddAnchorModal
Forms for creating subjects and memory anchors.
AnchorDrawer / Dialog
Notes, edits, recall prompts, ratings, focus containment, and panel
transitions.
Scene / MemoryAnchor
3D environment, lighting, objects, animation, and the graphics fallback.
CameraController / PostProcessing
Camera transitions, navigation bounds, and optional visual effects.
usePalaceStore.ts
State, actions, validation, persistence, and data migration.
data.ts / types.ts
Example content and TypeScript domain definitions.
Interaction sequence
When a student selects an anchor, the UI calls a store action. The store updates the selected anchor
and camera target. The drawer reads the selected note, while the camera controller reads the target and
moves the view. Both respond to the same source of state without placing camera animation frames
inside React state.
Rendering boundaries
NeuroQuest dynamically imports Scene with server rendering disabled. WebGL therefore initializes in
the browser. Forms keep unfinished input in component state. Components subscribe to individual
Zustand values or actions, which avoids publishing every form keystroke to the scene. The shared store
still updates subscribers when relevant data changes.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
09
8. 3D rendering and interaction
The environment gives notes stable visual locations while keeping study controls
available outside the canvas.
Scene and anchors
Scene creates procedural architecture, a ground grid, pedestals, and atmospheric lighting. A subdued
ambient base combines with directional and localized accent lights. Recall mode reduces ambient,
hemisphere, and directional intensity. Each MemoryAnchor renders one of six geometric artifact types.
Idle movement uses subtle vertical hovering and slow rotation through the render loop. Hovering
changes visual emphasis and displays a label.
Camera behavior
OrbitControls applies damping, bounded zoom, and polar-angle limits of 24 to 78 degrees. Panning is
disabled to keep the view within the room. Selecting an anchor sets a target for a 1.35-second GSAP
transition using power3.out. The controller cancels a tween when the user starts orbiting, the target
changes, a reset occurs, or the component unmounts. Initial framing and reduced-motion behavior apply
immediately.
Effects and performance choices
PostProcessing combines Bloom, Vignette, and subtle ChromaticAberration. Bloom uses
luminanceThreshold 0.6 and intensity 1.2. Students can disable effects in settings. Rendering limits pixel
ratio to 1.5 for fine-pointer devices and 1.25 for coarse-pointer devices, uses 1024-pixel shadow maps,
and disables multisampling in the effect composer. These are engineering choices, not measured
frame-rate guarantees.
Resource management
React Three Fiber manages disposal of declarative geometry and material resources when they
unmount. Camera tweens stop when no longer needed. Locally generated ambient audio closes its
resources when disabled or unmounted. Long sessions and repeated navigation should still receive
device-specific graphics testing.
Accessibility and fallback
The HTML interface provides anchor lists, a spatial map, keyboard-accessible controls, and a shared
dialog with focus containment and restoration. Reduced-motion preferences stop idle animation and
shorten UI motion. If WebGL fails or its context is lost, an HTML anchor view preserves study operations
and offers Retry 3D view. Decorative HUD containers allow pointer events through to the scene, while
buttons receive input.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
10
9. Data model and persistence
A room owns anchors through roomId. Retention and review information belong to
each anchor.
Entity
Important fields
Room
id, name, subtitle, color, icon
MemoryAnchor identity
id, roomId, title, category, content
MemoryAnchor appearance
shape, color, position [x, y, z]
MemoryAnchor progress
status, reviewCount, lastReviewedAt
Study state
active room, mode, selected anchor, camera target, recall-session ratings
Preferences
Ambient sound and postprocessing effects
What gets saved?
The persistence layer stores rooms, anchors, retention status, review counts, latest review timestamps,
active room, mode, and selected preferences. Its localStorage key is neuroquest-palace, with storage
schema version 2. Version 1 data migrates automatically so older notes and progress remain available
after the custom-palace feature.
Open panels, selected anchors, camera position, and current-session recall ratings are transient. The
application records the latest review time and count, not a complete history of every answer. Easy sets
status to mastered. Hard and Failed set status to learning. Each accepted rating increments the count
and updates the time.
Validation and recovery
Store actions validate user input. Hydration validates saved rooms before validating anchors, so room
references must be valid. Checks cover identifiers, duplicates, names, colors, icons, coordinates, and
data shape. Invalid records are discarded. Intentional empty rooms remain empty. If browser storage is
unavailable, the live in-memory session can continue, but durable saving is not guaranteed.
Data boundaries
Saved data is specific to the browser profile and origin. Another browser, another device, or a different
local port has separate storage. Clearing site data removes saved content. JSON export provides a
snapshot of rooms, anchors, and review data, but no import interface exists yet. Browser storage is not
encrypted user-account storage and does not provide access control on a shared device.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
11
10. Backend: current and proposed
The current application is a browser-based implementation with local persistence. A
server-side study backend is future work.
What exists now
Next.js supplies the application framework, development server, build process, and production serving.
The browser executes the study logic and stores data. The source has no implemented study API
routes, authentication flow, account system, or server database. No API keys or database configuration
are required to run this version. Calling it a complete cloud-based full-stack platform would misrepresent
its current scope.
A possible future backend
Layer
Proposed responsibility
Authentication
Identify a user through a maintained authentication system and secure session
handling.
Next.js Route Handlers
Expose authenticated operations for creating, reading, updating, and deleting
study records.
PostgreSQL database
Store users, rooms, anchors, and review events with constraints and ownership
relationships.
Authorization
Check that a user owns a room or has explicit permission before returning or
modifying it.
Synchronization
Track versions or update times, resolve conflicting edits, and recover from failed
requests.
Operations
Maintain backups, environment secrets, monitoring, rate limits, and secure
deployment.
Proposed relational model
User owns many Rooms. A Room contains many Anchors. An Anchor has many ReviewEvents.
ReviewEvent records could store the rating, review time, and user, enabling a complete history.
Classroom sharing would need additional role and membership tables. This model describes a design
option and is not present in the current application.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
12
11. Build process and local setup
A modern browser and Node.js 20.9 or newer are sufficient for the current version.
Implementation stages
The source reflects these stages: define TypeScript room and anchor models; implement a validated
Zustand store; create the responsive workspace and study forms; build procedural 3D components;
connect selection to camera focus; implement recall and ratings; add local persistence and migration;
verify behavior with automated and browser checks. Separate modules make it possible to extend one
layer without rewriting the entire application.
Run the project
1. Install prerequisites
Install Node.js 20.9 or newer with npm. Use a browser with WebGL and hardware acceleration for the
3D experience.
2. Open the project folder
Open a terminal in the directory containing package.json. Install the locked dependencies:
npm ci
3. Start development
Run the development server, then open http://localhost:3000 in the browser:
npm run dev
4. Build and serve production
Run these commands in order. npm start serves an existing production build:
npm run build
npm start
If port 3000 is already occupied, use npm run dev -- --port 3001 and open that port. No API
keys, accounts, environment variables, or database setup are needed for this implementation.
Deployment considerations
The project can run on a hosting environment that supports the chosen Next.js build and runtime. The
current localhost address is a local preview, not a public deployment. Saved browser data does not
automatically transfer to another hosted origin. There is no implemented service worker or
offline-installable PWA guarantee. Before a college demo, start the server and test the actual browser
and display equipment.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
13
12. Verification and educational
evaluation
Software correctness and learning effectiveness are separate questions.
Automated and manual checks
Check
What it covers
19 Vitest store tests
Ratings, duplicate recall prevention, room changes, camera reset state, anchor
changes, validation, persistence, migration, and malformed data.
TypeScript and ESLint
Static type and source-quality checks.
Prettier
Consistent source formatting.
Production build
Compilation and generation of the deployable application.
Browser checks
Custom palace creation, duplicate-name feedback, first-anchor creation, refresh
persistence, and responsive forms.
npm run format:check
npm run lint
npm run typecheck
npm test
npm run build
The latest feature checks completed 19 store tests, lint, and the production build successfully. The
browser used for the latest interface checks showed the HTML fallback. That confirms the study forms
and fallback workflow, but does not validate real-time 3D performance across all GPUs. State tests also
do not replace accessibility testing with users.
Suggested classroom evaluation - not conducted
Use the same course material and study time for a comparison group and a NeuroQuest group. Include
a baseline check, an immediate test, and a delayed recall test. Score answers with a predefined rubric
rather than app mastery labels. Collect task completion, usability feedback, and device performance.
With appropriate consent and institutional review where required, this could show whether the workflow
helps the intended learners.
Do not report invented improvements, success percentages, student satisfaction scores, or examination gains. The project
currently demonstrates functionality. Its educational effectiveness remains to be evaluated.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
14
13. Advantages, limitations, and
roadmap
The strongest implemented advantage is a customizable workflow that combines
study material with a recall prompt.
Advantages
Personal organization: separate palaces and categories make subjects easier to navigate. Recall
routine: hidden titles encourage an answer attempt before reveal. Rich notes: Markdown supports
structured explanations and code snippets. Low setup burden: no account or database is required.
Multiple access paths: the scene, list, map, and keyboard controls support different ways to navigate.
Modular code: clear responsibilities make further development easier.
Limitations and their implications
Limitation
Implication
Local browser storage
No automatic backup or synchronization. Clearing site data can lose work.
Self-rated mastery
A mastered label is not proof of a correct explanation or examination readiness.
Graphics requirements
Device capabilities can affect rendering. The HTML fallback remains important.
Preparation effort
Students must write accurate notes and form useful associations.
Incomplete teaching
platform
No accounts, class dashboards, content moderation, or collaborative workflows.
No learning outcome study
Expected benefits should remain hypotheses until evaluated.
Prioritized future work
1. Data recovery
Add a validated import/restore flow before expanding the amount of user content.
2. Learning support
Evaluate the workflow and consider scheduled revision with fuller review histories.
3. Backend services
Add authenticated synchronization, ownership checks, backups, and controlled sharing.
4. Teaching and accessibility
Explore lecturer templates, classroom workflows, and usability testing with diverse learners.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
15
14. Presentation demo and viva
preparation
Use the editable PowerPoint for a 12-15 minute talk, with a short demonstration and
time for questions.
Suggested team presentation flow
Opening: explain what NeuroQuest is and why the project exists. Student experience: show a subject,
an anchor, and the Explore/Recall difference. Technical explanation: describe TypeScript, the frontend
modules, 3D rendering, and local persistence. Closing: state the limitations and future backend plan.
Assign sections according to your team size; speaker notes in the deck provide a starting script.
Three-minute demonstration
Open Computer Science and select one anchor. Create a new palace such as Mathematics if the name
is available. Add a concise note for the Pythagorean theorem, including its right-triangle condition.
Select an artifact and position. Switch to Recall Challenge, explain the idea before revealing it, and rate
the attempt. Refresh to show persistence. Use the anchor list if the 3D view is unavailable.
Likely lecturer questions
Question
Suggested answer
What is the main purpose?
To help students attach concepts to places and practise recall before
checking notes.
Why use 3D?
It provides spatial cues and a navigable setting. Its learning benefit still
needs evaluation.
Which language is used?
Mainly TypeScript/TSX, with HTML and CSS. The browser runs compiled
JavaScript.
What is the backend?
No application backend exists yet. Next.js serves the app and localStorage
holds study data.
Is this AI or automatic grading?
No. Students write notes and rate their own recall.
Can it work on a phone?
The UI supports small screens and touch. Graphics performance depends
on the device.
How will you improve it?
Prioritize restore/import, educational evaluation, then secure accounts and
synchronization.


NEUROQUEST  /  PROJECT REPORT
College project presentation
16
15. References and glossary
Implementation statements come from the project source and its documented
behavior.
Project sources
P1. README.md: setup, architecture, workflow, limitations, persistence, and verification.
P2. package.json and package-lock.json: technologies, scripts, and dependencies.
P3. src/lib/types.ts and src/lib/data.ts: domain models and example content.
P4. src/store/usePalaceStore.ts: state actions, constraints, saving, and migration.
P5. src/components/NeuroQuest.tsx and ui/: workspace, dialogs, notes, and custom rooms.
P6. src/components/three/: rendering, camera, artifacts, and effects.
P7. tests/store.test.ts: automated state tests.
Learning research
R1. Roediger, H. L., III, & Karpicke, J. D. (2006). Test-enhanced learning: Taking memory tests
improves long-term retention. Psychological Science, 17(3), 249-255.
https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9280.2006.01693.x
R2. Dresler, M., et al. (2017). Mnemonic training reshapes brain networks to support superior memory.
Neuron, 93(5), 1227-1235.e6.
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neuron.2017.02.003
Glossary
Term
Meaning in this project
Memory anchor
An object, its location, and its attached study note.
Frontend
The interface and interactive behavior that run in the browser.
Backend
Server-side APIs, authorization, and data services. Proposed, not
implemented here.
WebGL
A browser graphics interface used by the 3D renderer.
State
Current application data, such as the selected room or mode.
Persistence
Keeping selected data between page loads.
Hydration / migration
Loading saved state and adapting older data to a newer storage schema.
Cover art: generated concept illustration created for this presentation with the built-in Image Generation tool. All other
descriptions refer to the project or explicitly labelled proposals.
